---
layout: post
unique_id: proposal
title: Proposal
categories: []
locations: 
---

YESTERDAY:
* head to work
* did a bit of planning with Guille and Tett
* sushi for lunch
* took two naps
* head home and picked up Stephen
* brian's for board games and dinner!
  * salmon fish tacos
  * homemade salsa was great
  * Marina and Joe were two newcomers
* played Spirit Island!
  * won this time, pretty easily once everybody knew what to do
* caught up on chess videos
* started a book on how humans walk
  * can fall asleep from reading it in about 10 mins

TODAY:
* woke up around 7:30 am
  * I think my neighbor's alarm went off?
* finished my poem for Jackie about 5 mins before her alarm went off
  * this one is in iambia tetrameter
* picked up our lunches from Roger's Deli
  * forgot to get Jackie a donut
* weird traffic on the way to Santa Cruz
* hike!
  * to a pretty neat waterfall
  * trail got a bit rocky closer to the falls
  * finished around 4 pm
* head to local ice cream joint!
  * got two scoops
  * mango sorbet and lemon sorbet
  * finished 75% of it and sugar high dissipated in ~10 minutes
  * very tasty mango sorbet!
* Brian took the group to some cliffs overlooking a beach
  * Guille was hovering around with his camera
  * directly pointing it at Jackie and I sitting on a bench
  * he later told me he was adjusting settings for lighting
* eventually Brian's and Alfred's cars left
* gave Jackie my poem and then proposed!
  * apparently halfway through my poem, Jackie saw Guille taking a photo
  * thought we were supposed to pose for a group photo
  * redid the photo with the beach behind us :D
* head back to dinner with friends at Apple Green Bistro in Cupertino
  * foot kept cramping on the drive back
  * tasty dishes
* head home
  * shared news with Jackie's parents
  * went through our photo albums over the years

LEARNINGS:
* how to propose!
* very confusing which finger to put the ring on
