---
layout: post
unique_id: novafest
title: Novafest
categories: []
locations: 
---

YESTERDAY:
* woke up early
  * redid some analysis
* head to bachata conference!
* workshops in the morning
* lunch at Ike's with Nikolaus
* more workshops in the afternoon
  * toes were cramping by the end
* dropped by a pool party
  * live sax player playing bachata music!
* head to dinner with friends!
  * sushi dinner
* head home
* had a call with new mentoree
  * pretty serious conversation
  * kept optimistic though
  * great potential!
* head back to event
  * watched some amazing salsa performances
* joined some folks at a social party
  * tried a non-alcholic ginger beer
  * first soda in ~5 years?
  * tasty!
* social dancing for a bit
* head home

TODAY:
* head back to conference for morning workshops
  * first instructor I met in Vegas
  * excellent teaching style
  * apparently he teaches in Santa Rosa
* second class was about switching roles between leads and follows
  * lovely time with a few folks
* flee back home to go climbing in SF
  * found my missing sports jacket
  * lent Louisa a bandaid
  * got a ride in her rental car!
  * picked up Annabelle
  * met up with Peterson and new person Juan from YC
  * Sara and Fabian eventually joined us too
* finished two 11b climbs and one 11c!
  * foot slipped at one point and my shoulders caught me
  * not sore afterwards! guess I'm stronger?
* tried to get to a $5 banh mi restaurant, but they closed too early
* ended up at dumpling home
  * very tasty spicy xiao long bao
* actually stayed awake on the way home
* two calls with CMU folks
* reviewed four essays for my mentoree (college application supplementals)
* caught up on chess drama

LEARNINGS:
* I think I just don't enjoy dancing with strangers?
