---
layout: post
unique_id: wedding
title: Wedding
categories: []
locations: 
---

YESTERDAY:
* took the day off from work (ha)
* Jackie had to get her fingernails and toenails done
  * takes two hours??
* went to yoga in the meantime
  * pretty empty class as expected
* bagel sandwhiches for lunch
  * not that great
* packed up all the flowers
* brought them to Jackie's family friend in Millbrae
  * Jackie had to pick up a dress from the tailors
  * Andrew went to the hotel to check-in and set up for the tea ceremony
* wrote down the vows
  * kept getting distracted by Jasmine
* Jackie went to Curiodyssey to start setting up with her family
* head to Curiodyssey with Amy and my Dad
* Graciela helped carry some stuff in for us
* met up with the bridal party
* did two run-throughs of the ceremony
  * didn't get to practice the dance
* Jackie's family was meticulously setting up the room
* finished rehearsal a bit early
  * everybody headed to Palette Tea Garden
  * started out with tiny amounts of food
  * got ridiculous real fast
  * had to cancel two dishes
  * even Tett couldn't keep up
* waddled back to the hotel
* picked up Edie and her mom from the airport
* got to sleep by 2 am

TODAY:
* wedding day!
* woke up in hotel
* Jackie had hair and makeup done
* tea ceremony!
  * my canto really is awful
  * nice to see all the family together though
* change into tuxedo!
  * head to venue for first look photos!
  * not supposed to see Jackie for a bit ...
  * took some fun photos by the pier
* head back to Curiodyssey
  * Amy brought us in-n-out!
  * big black fly crawled out of one of my burgers
  * also had to share one fork and knife
* bridal party photos around Curiodyssey
  * playground was fun
  * aviary was interesting
* photos with family!
  * Dad and Amy did a great job
* ceremony!
  * super fun
  * only messed up the ring part a little bit
  * good thing we practiced dipping with the veil on
* extended family photos!
  * good work by everybody!
* change into dance outfits!
  * not too tricky
  * good thing we practiced with performances at the congresses
* first dance!
  * realized that if I don't wear my glasses and we're surrounded by people, it's a little disorienting
  * no major hiccups :D
* change again!
* dinner time!
  * beef was amazing
  * little sad I couldn't get more
* table touches!
  * lots of pictures and greets!
* speeches!
  * thank you speech was normal
  * very touching from Bernice
  * amazing speech from Brian, dry humor was excellent
  * loved the parallels from Sunjay
* prizes
  * lots of repeat winners
* finished a few more table touches
* Jackie and her dad did a father-daughter dance
* Hector and Annaliza gave a great bachata tutorial!
  * excellent introductory lesson!
* social dancing
  * pictures with folks
  * farewells
  * more dancing
  * Vedant and Andrew Magsumbol keeping the dance floor alive
* cleanup wasn't too bad
  * Suse, Tett, and the Brians all helped until the end
* got out before midnight

LEARNINGS:
* the kids love my litte finger pointer and the tiny hands
* Hector has never seen a wedding dance in person that he choreographed!
* Brian is amazing at delivering speeches
* DJ couldn't make it :'(
