---
layout: post
unique_id: mikiya
title: Mikiya
categories: []
locations: 
---

YESTERDAY:
* head to power yoga class
  * met up with Mauricio there
  * working on chin stand!
* head home
* quick shower
* head out to lunch with aunties
  * caught up with Uncle Johnson since he showed up on time
  * Rio was so calm throughout lunch
  * Sunshine HK Cafe wasn't bad!
* took the aunties to visit some open houses
  * had fun checking out some weird places
* head to Mikiya in Hillsdale shopping center
  * 2 hour wait at 5:30 pm!
  * went to Palette Tea House instead
* dropped off Uncle Johnson at Caltrain station
* head home

TODAY:
* tried out a lagree class at Solidcore
  * intro class was a bit too easy
* drop by Palmetto Superfoods
  * playing bachata music again!
  * 3d-printed cupholder works!
  * originally I thought the cold acai shrunk the cup to fit
  * turns out they just changed the cups to be slightly smaller
* nap
* head to Westfield Valley mall
  * struggled to find a nice shirt to wear
  * ended up ordering online from a custom-tailored shop
* skipped dance practice since Kat is still sick
* drop off returns at Whole Foods
* head to Mikiya in Santa Clara for dinner!
  * Jackie snagged us a reservation at 4:30 pm
  * delicious curry! goes well with wagyu
  * something upset my stomach though
  * either milk in the curry or the raw orange juice was too much
* bit of work
* sync with Brian
  * doing well on his projects!
* watched an episode of one punch man
* bit of work
* filled out my ballot

LEARNINGS:
* Mikiya is pretty tasty!
