---
layout: post
title: Birthday
categories: 
locations: [Washington D.C.]
---

TODAY:
* drove to D.C.
* visited Tyson's Corner and Medallia's Virginia office
* lunch with Shantanu's family!
* visited memorials of Lincoln, Korean War, Martin Luther King Jr., Jefferson, and Franklin D. Roosevelt
* Ethiopian for dinner

One of the common questions asked by candidates during a culture interview is "how has the culture changed over the years?".  In my opinion, the largest shifts in engineering culture occurred due to changes in team structure and management.  Specifically, our decision to split into multiple teams, and our decision to switch from people managers to technical managers.

<hr/>

When I joined Medallia, we had 12 developers that all reported to a manager who reported to a VP and that VP reported directly to the CEO.

Like many startups, we were proud of our flat culture and there were no formal titles amongst the ICs (individual contributors).  Everybody was allowed to work on anything although individuals had areas of expertise and interests.  When we reached about two dozen developers, we realized that it was time to split into distinct teams.

There are in general two ways to create teams; one is by assigning teams functional areas of the codebase and the other is to assign product features (which typically require building/extending different services unless the feature is an API, extremely minimally scoped, or code/system duplication is acceptable.  We experimented with both actually before settling on the functional approach.  In the product approach, code quality quickly loses consistency as  owners transition.

Why did breaking into teams cause a culture shift?  Dividing into teams meant each single individual contributor no longer felt full ownership over problems outside of their team's domain of responsibility.  E.g. if I discover a race condition in the ORM layer exposed while building a feature for text analytics, I had to go through platform team to complete the fix.  There's nothing inherently wrong with this in itself, but fixing something yourself will always feel more agile/empowered than going through a barrier.  In addition, there were inevitably components which were not fully owned by any particular team like our testing frameworks and legacy features that became orphaned.

Lots of initiatives were taken to solve this including:
* "common good" system to reward efforts which benefited everybody
  * this was a shared pool of bug fixes, tooling ideas, etc that anybody could work on
* map product/code components to team responsibilities
* pursuit of microservices (also worth its own blog post)
* being explicit in new hire training that new perspectives are welcome on any parts of the codebase
* showing by example how to efficiently request fixes across team boundaries
* refactoring legacy components to respect team boundaries (API divisions)
* accountability metrics
* tiger teams to solve joint issues
* allow individuals to cross team boundaries

Disallowing people to cross boundaries means teams can block each other unless deadlines are strict via e.g. aligned sprint schedules, conservative estimates for planning, and acknowledging that other teams are "the customer".  Allowing people to cross team boundaries can help ease the friction but can bring its own issues.  Allowing individuals to temporarily contribute code to another team's codebase can cause issues since the writer/reviewer of code is not permanently responsible for the maintenance of his/her changes.  Allowing individuals to permanently cross team boundaries means certain individuals have now have "superpowers" compared to normal team members.  This can be ok if said power is used cautiously and judiciously.

To clarify, these issues were anticipated ahead of time and the change in feelings of ownership was a gradual transition, not an immediate change.

Inevitably with growth, splitting into teams becomes a necessity in order to protect and focus people/teams/resources.  However, it comes with a loss of ownership and impact for individual contributors.  With one team, the customer of each developer is the product team and by extension: our customers, or sales/marketing, or product support.  Withsplit teams, one should be clear that other teams are also customers (and adjust goals/metrics/priorities accordingly).

<hr/>

Managers in engineering always have certain responsibilities including: hiring and retention for a team, career development for individuals, accountability for the performance of the team (and features/products owned).  However, (after interviewing around ~50 from an IC perspective), there tend to be two different types of managers:
# people managers
# technical managers

People managers tend to play a more supportive role; enabling individuals by finding opportunities for them (e.g. technical projects, mentorship opportunities, leadership initiatives).  They ensure a team has the resources to accomplish tasks; whether it's bringing in an architect from another team, an external consultant, or bringing in other roles to assist (SRE, product support, product).

Technical managers tend to play a more direct role; from setting a technical vision, and defining metrics/goals, to choosing projects/libraries/frameworks to use, to actual writing and reviewing code.

Our original manager when I joined was a people manager.  When we split into teams, each team had a unique product manager, unique tech lead, and our shared people manager.  We eventually realized that one manager can not manage two dozen direct reports.  Hiring was a necessity, but hiring the wrong manager can heavily affect culture:

* number one reason for people leaving a company is a bad manager
* an uninspiring manager means engineering loses its drive/passion
* an overbearing manager causes high performers to seek more impact elsewhere
* a manager that avoids accountability can't deliver
* a manager's departure creates instability and doubt in the team

Suffice it to say, we brainstormed heavily on creating a good interview process for our engineering manager (eng mgr) candidates.

When hiring people managers, the types of questions asked tend to be much more focused on interactions and conflict resolution as opposed to technical architecture and problem solving.  As with any on-site one-on-one interview, we can either dive into the candidate's past and/or poke at hypothetical scenarios.  Both are necessary to offer insight into experience and potential, but both can be very biased if you aren't careful in how questions are asked.

My typical flow went something like this for such interviews:
# Describe product and engineering team breakdown in first 10 minutes
  * test for technical understanding of high-level architecture
  * see if they are used to working on a complex product in a multi-team environment
  * ask them what type of problems they foresee (e.g. we didn't have a dedicated QA team, so what friction can arise?)
# Dive into 
# Dive into conflict resolution scenarios
  * inter-team conflicts (e.g. release team blocks a promised delivery date)
  * intra-team conflicts (e.g. senior developer doesn't appreciate perspectives from junior developer)

In the end, evaluation for a people manager tends to be more subjective than technical interviews where correctness is more obvious.  There are certain signs which can clearly indicate a candidate that won't jell with the team though.  The ones that I most commonly used to justify passing on a candidate were:
* lack of interest/passion in developing individuals
* inability to admit failure
* lack of structure for fairly evaluating individuals and/or teams
  * this usually meant they didn't actually know what initiatives were working or not
* obsession with metrics (e.g. story points or LOC)
  * this is usually coupled with an inability to explain why those metrics mattered to ICs
  * this also usually correlated with excessive process (e.g. the religious scrum adherent)

In any case, there's still a bar of technical understanding required for people managers; and finding candidates that had both skillsets and passed our normal Medallian culture interview was pretty challenging.  Even if we found such a high-quality candidate, asking them to take a people manager role instead of a technical role would often cause a conflict of motivation.  Career progression for a manager means increased responsibility and the only way to demonstrate proficiency is by making the right calls for important decisions.  It's much easier to show that a technical decision was the right call vs. a people management decision and thus high-performing eng mgr candidates tended to desire technical impact in their role.

How did this affect the culture?  The original triumvirate of product lead, tech lead, and eng mgr had great balances.  They answered "Should we do this?", "Can this be done technically?", "Can this be done non-technically?" (e.g. resourcing/prioritization, impact on support).  An eng mgr and tech lead can have 

